## Methods

To create or contribute to a Manubot project, you will need to be logged into GitHub. If you do not have an account, create one.

### Creating a new Manubot project
1. Create a new Manubot project by cloning the [Manubot `rootstock` repository](https://github.com/manubot/rootstock) and following the instructions in the repo's [`setup.md` file](https://github.com/manubot/rootstock/blob/master/SETUP.md). 
2. Add text to your project's [`content` directory](https://github.com/manubot/rootstock/tree/master/content). 
3. Push those changes to GitHub. Manubot will then compile and publish the document online in both HTML and PDF formats. 

### Contributing to an existing Manubot project
1. Go to this document's underlying [GitHub repository](https://github.com/jperkel/mymanuscript).
2. Navigate to the `content` subdirectory.
3. Click any document file to open it (these are the files whose names begin with numbers, eg `00.front-matter.md`, `01.abstract.md`, ...). In the gray bar above the document text is a toolbar; select the pencil icon to edit the file. Make your suggested changes. 
4. At the bottom of the page, where it says "Propose file change", add an informative message and optional comment. Click "Propose file change".
5. In the next web page, entitled "Comparing changes", you will see your proposed changes. Click "Create pull request". 
6. You're done!

This [tutorial video](https://manubot.org/docs/getting-started.html) demonstrates the process.

### Figure generation
The following code was used to generate the Manubot data shown in Figure @fig:manubot-fig.

```R
library(tidyverse)
library(gghighlight)

df <- data.frame(Year = 2017:2020, N = c(2, 2, 16, 10), cumsum = c(2,4,20,30))
p <- ggplot (df) + 
  geom_col(aes(x=Year, y=N), fill="blue") +
  geom_line(aes(x=Year, y=cumsum), color = "red", size = 1) +
  geom_point(aes(x=Year,y=cumsum)) +
  gghighlight(Year < 2020, use_direct_label = FALSE) +
  geom_label(aes(Year, cumsum, label=cumsum)) +
  ylab("# of Manubot papers") 

print(p)
ggsave('~/Downloads/manubot.jpg', width = 2.87, height = 3.39, units = "in")

```